A fish to smoke?
I don't really recall.
I never did smoke, so I didn't really notice.
But I don't know of any prohibition we had against smoking, so it probably was all right.
As I recall, the only mischief that would be considered something that was out of line was
You remember back when we were kids, they used to have firecrackers.
They were small sticks of dynamite.
That's what they were.
We called them baby giants.
Well, some of the guys got to wondering what would happen if they'd light a baby giant and flush it down a commode.
Well, we found out.
It blew that commode to smithereens.
And I guess probably the size of a saucer would be about the biggest piece of that commode that was left.
And we all got restricted to the campus for a couple of months for that.
And I was not involved, but I don't even remember who was, but we were in the proximity, so we all suffered because of it.
About how often did you go home during that time?
I think Thanksgiving was my first time home.
And homesick, first time I'd ever been away from home.
And I almost died.
I was so homesick.
We had a very close-knit community, very close-knit family, a lot of affection.
A lot of hugs, you know, those kind of things.
But the minute I set foot on the campus, all that stopped.
And I was so homesick.
And we did, they had one old pay phone in the dining hall.
And there'd be a long line of people waiting to use the pay phone.
I think it cost a nickel.
Of course, you could call Collect.
But those phone calls were so important to me.
What about mail?
Did you write much?
Wrote a lot, wrote a lot.
A lot of the guys that had steady girlfriends back home would get what we called a Dear John letter, where she had found someone else and so forth.
So then we would all write her a letter telling her what a dirty trick that was.
So she'd get a lot of mail from the guy's buddies telling her how bad she was.
Did your mom send you any...
Cookies or cake?
Oh, yes.
That was called what?
A care package.
Well, that's what we called it later on.
I don't know if we had a name for it in those days.
Was that kush?
No, well, now kush is dessert.
That's part of your slanguage in the mess hall.
But that wasn't applied to?
Not applied to packages that you got from home.
If you got any package of dessert from home, cookies or cake, were you expected to share it?
Absolutely.
You know, if you got a big box of cookies, if you got one or two, you'd be very lucky.
The whole barracks, you know, if you got something from home, everybody would come in and we'd divide it equally.
It was almost like an extended family.
Who were the faculty members during that freshman year that made an impression on you?
I had...
I had a PE prof that kind of helped me along a whole lot, Amel Mammal Eagle.
Did you ever know him?
I took weight training as one of my PE exercises.
Our chemistry class, lecture class, was so large that I don't remember who my freshman chemistry prof was.
We had a guy, and I wanna, my memory's so hazy on this, but we called him Cube Root.
Kent, Cube Root Kent, I believe was the gentleman's name.
And there was another guy that lisped a lot, I think his name was Callahan.
And I don't remember what course he taught, biology.
No, wait, there was a guy that taught biology.
His name was Ripma, R-I-P-M-A, I don't know what his first name was.
But I'll never forget, the very first lecture he gave us was on venereal disease, of all things.
Because a lot of us had never, you know, we all led sheltered lives and in those days promiscuity had not been invented.
And so he wanted to make sure that we knew what we were getting into if we decided to stray a little bit.
And he described all the diseases in such vivid detail that none of us wanted to go close to a girl ever.
What about English?
We had English.
Now Harrison Hurth taught one year.
He taught, I took some courses from Harrison on the campus, but not my freshman year.
I don't recall who my freshman English teacher was.
As you look back, what was the quality of the instruction?
Oh, I think it was excellent.
And plus, we didn't have a lot of distractions.
You know, we were either marching or playing or studying or in class.
And that was it.
That was our life.
If you needed advice, to whom did you turn?
We had tactical officers, but none of us really felt free to discuss things with them.
I guess each other.
I really don't recall having anyone that we could go sit down and talk over our problems with.
You would have been...
I know that near the end of my freshman year, of my first semester, it became evident that I was not going to make it as an engineer because of aptitude or just sheer intellectual inability or I'm not sure what.
But Dean Abbott called me in and he said, you've got a good record, you're a good kid, but you're not going to make it as an engineer.
He said, we need to see what else that you would be interested in.
And I guess we spent almost an hour, just one-on-one.
And as a result of that conversation, I switched to business administration, which is what I stayed in for the rest of my life.
So it was a good choice.
But he was very kind, very understanding, not threatening in any way.
He wanted to do what was in my best interest.
Now, where did you finish in Waco senior class?
Where were you?
I was in the top quarter, as I recall.
And you, like I, didn't take an ACT or SAT, right?
Never heard of such a thing, yeah.
All right.
Anything unusual in the spring semester out there?
Other than my academics were so completely different, well, of course, the basics were not, but I was, I've even forgotten what courses I took that second semester, but it was almost like starting over again because the courses I'd taken in engineering didn't count
So it's the end of the first semester when you make that change.
That's correct.
After the first semester, I switched over to business administration and took some courses on the campus that led up to that.
Second semester was, after football season, it all gets kind of hazy.
I remember the football season very vividly because of the trauma involved.
Did you all come in for basketball games?
I don't recall ever seeing a basketball game my freshman year.
Did you come in for any of the silver taps?
Yes, we did come in for silver taps, and of course there was no hazing there.
It was all serious.
Buster?
Buster, we did.
Bonfire?
uh we had bonfire it was out in front of the uh the msc on what's now simpson drill field what did what did you fish what part of the job we we went to the woods and there was a lot of hazing in the woods as i recall and uh but we we were not allowed to spend a whole lot of time in the woods they wanted to make sure that that we were able to
to do our studying.
Was the bonfire constructed of timber then only?
It was, much like it is now, only nowhere near as large as it became.
Of course, it kept getting bigger and bigger, and then later on they had to limit the size because of the safety factors.
Did you and your buddies do the cutting?
Yes.
Yes, we did.
Using cross-cut saws?
Using axes, mostly.
Okay, axes.
Yes.
Any accidents that you remember?
Not that I recall.
That many people, some of whom were totally... And had never seen an axe up to that point.
Of course, I cut firewood all the time when I was a kid, so I was very familiar with how to use an axe.
Was there an outhouse on the top of the bonfire?
Yes.
Yes, there was.
And in those days, they used to steal them.
It was a real outhouse that they stole from someone's actual outhouse.
Now, y'all did not come in for midnight yell practice the night before?
No, no, we did not, that I recall.
What about any of the big dances?
We had a freshman ball, and it was in Cebisa.
All of our dances were in Cebisa.
And we had some big-name bands that came through.
I remember Ray Anthony and his band, for one, that's the only one that sticks in my mind.
There was a... I can't remember.
No.
Did you have a special date to that freshman ball?
As I recall, it was a young lady from Waco that came down.
They used to come down, and we'd meet and go to the dance, and then they'd go back home.
And I'm trying to remember her name.
Did she go back that night?
Her mother brought her down, so I presume that she probably did.
And the dancing started early and ended early.
It was not a late-night affair.
But then, of course, later on, after I got on the campus, then we had dances a lot more often.
But I just recall that one dance.
I call it the fish ball.
Did you go to commencement?
I don't remember going to commencement except, no, I don't remember going to commencement.
What was the, still in this fresh year, what was the routine of conduct in the classroom?
It was, I would say mostly lecture, the test.
How did y'all, what were they, what was expected of you as the students?
Well, we were expected to be absolutely, our deportment had to be perfect, you know, there was no toleration for
for horseplay or anything of that type.
It was serious business.
And we were expected to have our homework.
We were expected to participate in class.
If we didn't, then we'd be called on, called upon.
Where could you have hidden if you had wanted to cut class?
Oh, I can't imagine where you could hide on that.
It was a fairly barren environment.
And there was a little bit of a health center?
Yes, we had a health center.
We called it the Quack Shack.
And, of course, there were competent people there, but I don't remember.
We did have one young man that developed spinal meningitis in a barracks about three or four down from me.
And I'm not sure if he died or not, but it was a very serious deal, and they quarantined the barracks, and we all had to go through a lot of tests.
I remember that my freshman year, during the wintertime, I developed a very bad case of flu.
And I had so much congestion in my chest that mother and daddy, that was about the time the spinal meningitis deal came out.
So they came and got me in with the university's permission, of course, took me to Marlin to a doctor.
And I went into the hospital there and stayed about two or three days.
And they determined that, no, it was just a bad case of flu with on the verge of pneumonia, but never went into pneumonia.
then I came back.
All right, that second semester academically went better.
Much better, yeah.
I was on probation as a result of flunking some courses my first semester, and I almost got off probation the second semester, but not quite.
What were your parents' reaction to your first semester grades?
Oh, they were heartbroken.
They just couldn't understand it because I'd always been such a good student.
Did they lay down any kind of
you will do this?
No, not really, because they knew that I was doing the best I could do.
And so, no, I didn't, most of my grief was self-imposed.
About what did that year cost?
Do you remember?
I don't recall.
It was nothing almost.
I remember that my sophomore year, Mother and Daddy sent me $50 a month, and I made the rest of it waiting tables and what have you.
But it was not a whole lot more than that.
And you didn't come on a scholarship?
I took a test for the Opportunity Award Scholarship along with hundreds of other guys.
That's the first time I heard the expression where the guy said, look at the guy on your left and look at the guy on your right.
two out of the three of you will never graduate.
You know, that was really a motivating comment, of course.
But I was not awarded an Opportunity Award scholarship, so no, I had no scholarships.
Okay, you go home that summer.
When did the homesickness end?
I guess probably by the end of my first semester, I was pretty well acclimated.
I'd say almost by the end of football season, I was pretty well set up.
Did you, at the end of the spring semester, did you have any thought about transferring?
None at all.
No, there was never any consideration that I would go anywhere with A&M and that I would graduate from A&M.
All right, so you go home and come back the second year and tell me what it was like to be then on the main campus.
Okay, the main campus, we were, my sophomore year, I was in B Air Force.
We called it Bloody B.
And I think later on they changed it, which is now Squadron 3.
But the fact that I was in the Air Force on the annex just logically led me into an Air Force unit, which led to my career in the Air Force.
But we were on what we call the stoop, which commonly refers to as a floor, third stoop of Durham 6, Lacey Hall.
And it runs parallel to, I've forgotten the name of the street now.
It's one that runs by the Corps Center.
But anyway, our sophomore year, of course, we dropped a lot of the mental hazing.
But then we started getting some physical hazing.
Those were in those days we still had the board.
And the juniors would swap the sophomores
Well, the seniors would swat the juniors, and then the juniors would swat the sophomores, and it was a pretty brutal experience.
It's a miracle that some of us didn't get injured.
We had wooden doors on our closets, two men to a room, upper and lower bunk, and the wooden doors, every time we'd get our fannies whipped, I'd cut a notch in the door.
And those were kind of badges of honor.
You know, all the sophomores, how many notches you got?
You know, we'd all compare notches.
Well, I pretty well led the group my sophomore year because a lot of times I'd antagonize some of the other people just so I'd get an extra notch.
I had 19 notches on my door at the end of my sophomore year.
All right, now, normally when you get paddled, how many licks was that?
Okay, they'll tap you lightly with a board, which we call warm-up licks.
And I don't know the purpose of that other than they claim that it got the blood circulating or not circulating.
But then you'd squat down, and the term used, you'd grab pooch.
You'd grab your privates and squeeze them real tight, and then you'd stand up and squeeze your butt muscles as tightly as you could, which made it hurt less and be less likely to get injured.
And then they would tap you.
And then when you were ready for the three licks, there were three licks, you'd say, come through.
And then they'd hit you three times with a board.
And it was, you know, the boards were, you know, some of them were the length of a baseball bat.
And they'd swing them as hard as they could swing them.
And it was very, very painful.
Our butts stayed black and blue the whole sophomore year, just about.
And that eased up after the first semester of our sophomore year.
Now, what were the alleged wrongs that could lead to a paddling?
Well, we'd maybe be late for CQ or go down to the Coke machine during CQ and get caught, making too much noise in the hallway.
Sometimes they would just paddle a whole sophomore class because the seniors had paddled the juniors, you know, and it trickled down.
So we didn't want the juniors to get any paddles because we'd know that if they got it, we were going to get it.
And there were two or three guys that were more notorious with the board than others.
I remember there was a junior named Boyd Taylor.
Everybody hated to get Boyd because he was strong and he would just pulverize you almost.
But those days, when we got to be juniors, the paddling almost came to a stop because of the administration.
You found out what was going on and of course it had been going on for years, years.
But it periodically had outbreaks, and even later on when I was a tactical officer on the campus, my first job, we still had outbreaks of it.
Now, who were the key administrators at A&M that sophomore year?
Tom Harrington was our president.
Now, wait, or was it Bolton?
No, it was Tom Harrington.
Gilchrist was the chancellor by then?
I believe that's correct.
Uh-huh.
And Colonel Boatner was the commandant.
Let's see around him.
Uh-huh.
Describe him physically and his manner and style.
He was very stern.
Not too tall, somewhat portly for a full colonel in the Army.
Very gruff.
To give you an example, my sophomore year I worked in the MSC in the bowling alley.
I was a waiter at first and then a banquet waiter, but along with that I worked in the bowling alley.
setting pins.
Back in those days, we didn't have an automatic machine.
We set the pins by hand.
Well, I was going over one morning, and I've forgotten.
As I recall, it was on a Saturday morning, which, of course, we didn't have classes at that time on Saturday morning.
I didn't have any classes.
Well, Colonel Boatner's house was on the corner so that I had to walk through by his front yard on the way from Durham 6 to the MSC.
And he came out of the door of his house in his bathrobe and house shoes to pick up the newspaper out of the front yard as I was walking by.
And I was in uniform.
Of course, you never went anywhere without being out of uniform.
And I passed by and I said, good morning, Colonel Boatner.
And he said, cadet, come over here.
And I went over and I was standing at attention.
He said, do you know who I am?
I said, yes, sir.
Who am I?
You're Colonel Boatner, sir.
He said, well, don't you salute officers?
And I said, yes, sir.
He said, well, give me a salute.
So I saluted him.
And he turned around, went back in the house, and I went to the MSC.
Here he's in his bathrobe, and I didn't salute him.
So he kind of got on me a little bit about that.
In later years, he went on to either fame or infamy, whichever you choose to call it, in a place called Koji Island.
There was a prison there that he was put in charge of, and he was going to straighten it out, and he probably did would be my guess.
Was he an Aggie by background?
I don't know.
Or a West Point?
I really don't know.
I've never heard anyone claim him as an Aggie.
That was the only personal contact I had with him, and we really...
I didn't know too much about him other than the fact that he was not a guy that you could go in and pour your heart out to.
He was really a hard guy.
That sophomore year, do you remember any key courses for you during that first year on the main campus?
I took chemistry in high school, and I did not do well in chemistry in high school.
I flunked freshman chemistry on the annex my first semester, so I was spooked about chemistry.
So when I took chemistry the second semester, I was really concerned about it, but with some good help and so forth, I think I made a C or something like that.
But chemistry was really the course that I really concentrated on.
But all my grades started coming up my sophomore year, and then, of course, everything was fine by the time I got out.
But I remember that specifically.
No courses particularly stand out other than that chemistry course.
You were some teachers and or advisors during the whole four years that now you look back on with gratitude.
Of course, John Paul Abbott was the first one that would pop into my mind.
Harrison Hearth that we mentioned earlier was a good friend.
I think probably one of the people that had
A lot of influence on my life was a business professor named Herb Thompson.
Herb was really a great guy, and we got... He was just an excellent teacher, and he was entertaining, but he was instructive, and he demanded a lot from his students.
He wanted to make sure that you understood what he was saying.
And he was always real friendly.
He was approachable.
And I remember that very well.
What about Harrison Herb, you said?
Same way, just a great guy.
I never did really have a whole lot of trouble with his courses, so I had no really occasion to go in and counsel with him.
Did Professor Thompson have a nickname?
Herb Thompson.
What was his nickname?
Nearly all of them did.
I don't remember one for him.
I don't remember one for Herb.
Hearth was Harry, Happy Harry.
Yes.
I had a statistics prof named Hamilton, we called him Mouse Hamilton, because he was a mousy-looking little guy.
And let's see.
Did you have a nickname?
Just Chuck.
Everybody called me Chuck.
And that came from earlier?
There was a little Baptist preacher that called me Chuck when I was probably a freshman in high school, and it just kind of stuck.
So I came to A&M with that as a nickname.
And almost every A&M student had a nickname also.
Pretty close, yeah, pretty close.
Do you remember any now that by today's politically correct standards would not be used today?
Oh my, that's a tough one.
What about any of the Hispanic?
Do you remember Flores, did he have a nickname?
from Mexico?
No, I don't recall he had a nickname.
His first name was Octavio.
No, I don't recall him having a nickname.
Let's see.
Describe a typical day of classes, a weekday of classes.
Now, as a sophomore, what was the routine?
We still fell out for Reveille and marched to Duncan Hall and ate together as an outfit.
We had assigned tables and the seniors sat on the end and then the juniors and then the sophomores sat in the middle with the exception of the sophomore that was on what we call the hot corner.
As the waiters would bring out trays of food
they would hand them to the sophomore that was on the hot corner, and it was his job to pass them around.
I hope, can we stop this just for a second?
But then, as you mentioned earlier, all the food and utensils and so forth all had their own names.
We called it slanguage.
But the sophomore that was on the hot corner was responsible for
making sure that all the rest of the people had the things that they wanted.
And he would be the point where the waiter would hand him the, well he would lower the plate and then he would take the serving dishes off and pass them around and so forth.
Now who, what sophomore got that task?
It rotated.
All of us had it from time to time.
Now in later years,
The freshmen would do that instead of the sophomores, is that right?
I presume so.
Yeah, that's right.
That's right.
Once the fish were on campus.
Yes.
Well, now, but even when the freshmen came on campus, as I recall,
They lived over in what we call the new area, which is in the Cebiza area.
They were still segregated, even though they were on campus.
They were not integrated into the outfits.
All right, so breakfast is 7 o'clock, and you all marched to chow?
March to chow, and then dispersed from there and went our separate ways.
As I recall, we were on our own for the noon meal, and then we had retreat and march to chow in the evening.
And then after we finished, then we'd go our way until time for CQ.
Sophomores were required to observe CQ also, 7 to 10.
During the day, if you had an hour that was unscheduled, don't have a class, where was a place you could go and do whatever you wanted to do?
We all headed to the sea, used the MSC, and get a Coke float.
And it was comparatively new.
When did it open?
It opened in 1950.
We were freshmen on the annex.
It was just still under construction when we came here in 1949.
And it was completed, as I recall, sometime in the spring or fall of 1950.
So when we came back as freshmen, it was brand new.
I mean, as sophomores, it was brand new.
And Wayne Stark was the first director.
What was your impression of the MSC?
Oh, it was, you know, I'd never seen anything like it.
It was a gorgeous building, still is.
But the old part was just a beautiful structure.
Air-conditioned.
Air-conditioned, and I'd never been in very many air-conditioned buildings.
We never had air conditioning when I was a kid.
Twelve-foot ceilings in the houses, you didn't need it, you know.
Well, at least we didn't think we needed it.
And you said there was a bowling alley.
Had a bowling alley and the bowling alley off to one side had a large room for ping pong.
Ping pong was a big sport back in those days.
Had eight lanes of bowling alley.
Had a snack bar and then a little breakfast sandwich type place.
And then of course we had the main ballroom where we still use it today.
In your three years on the main campus,
What major event, speakers, or other events do you remember in your MSC, in the MSC for you as a student?
In the MSC itself?
I was, my first job after I got on the campus, we were not allowed to work as freshmen, of course there's no place to work on the NX, but my first job was as a banquet waiter.
We had a lady in charge of food services by the name of Theresa Tennell, and she was a, well.
Spell her name, we may not.
Theresa, I'm not sure how you spell that, but I believe it was T-I-N-N-E-L-L.
So it's with a T. Yes, Tennell.
Theresa Tennell.
Theresa Tennell, and she was in charge of food services, and she reported to Wayne Stark.
And so then I apparently did well enough as a banquet waiter
that she offered me a job.
And the coffee shop's the word I was trying to find a while ago.
We had a coffee shop, a snack bar, where you got your drinks and Coke floats and that kind of stuff.
And then the coffee shop, they served sandwiches and I think bacon and eggs as I recall or whatever, and maybe a noon blue plate special or something.
So then I worked in there as a waiter.
And of course Wayne Stark got to where he knew all of the people that worked there on a regular basis.
And a job came open.
in the bowling alley as a pin setter.
Well, we made the same amount of money, but we got tips.
They'd slide tips down the alley after you finished, nickel, dime, quarter, whatever.
And so those were over and above the 50 cents an hour or whatever we were making at that time.
So I left the food service operation and went to the bowling alley as a pin setter and worked there the rest of my sophomore year and probably half of my junior year.
And then a desk clerk job opened up, and so then I moved up to a desk clerk in the bowling alley for the rest of my junior year and all of my senior year.
How important was that work experience to you as you look back on you, your career?
It was very important.
I'd always worked.
I had a paper route when I was 12 years old, and I'd always worked all my life, so work was nothing new to me.
But I'd never worked in a business environment before.
It had always been, you know, farm work or chopping cotton or picking cotton.
I pick cotton a lot, and I don't ever want to do that again.
But I'd never worked in a business environment.
Now, waiting tables,
And setting pins was labor, but there was no business equipment required there at all.
But when I became a desk clerk, then I had reports to fill out, money to take care of, bank deposits to make.
And that was my first exposure to those kinds of things.
And it probably got me moving in the right direction.
I know that you would work with him as a professional leader, but describe for this tape,
Describe your impression of Wayne Stark at the time you were an undergraduate.
Describe this man.
I would think that he was probably someone that I would want to be like when I grew up.
He had a pretty distinguished military career that most people are not aware of.
As I recall, he retired as a full colonel from the reserve.
Am I right there?
I think so.
I think he was a full colonel.
But he never, you know, a lot of people wear their, they try to wear their military rank the rest of their life.
And, but he was not, you know, we never even knew that he was in the military.
But very gentle, very kind man, he knew everyone.
I never worked for him directly, so I can't describe him as a stern taskmaster, but ran a good operation.
He was very, I would think, very possessive of the MSC.
He considered that his MSC.